Feature/Job-Link.md, before:

# Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Terminology](#terminology)
- [Background](#background)
- [User Experience](#user-experience)
  - [Login Screen](#login-screen)
  - [Registration Screen](#registration-screen)
  - [File Upload Screen](#file-upload-screen)
  - [File Upload Successful Screen](#file-upload-successful-screen)
  - [Dashboard Screen](#dashboard-screen)
  - [Job Search Screen](#job-search-screen)
- [Security Configurations](#security-configurations)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Endpoints](#endpoints)
  - [Retrive Job Postings](retrieve-job-postings)
  - [Upload Document On Home Screen](upload-document-on-home-screen)
  - [Get Job Posting Count](get-job-posting-count)
- [Business Logic](#business-logic)
  - [Authentication Flow](#authentication-flow)
  - [Backend Service Flow](#backend-service-flow)
- [Known Issues](#known-issues)
- [Test Data Creation](#test-data-creation)

# Overview
The Job Portal application (Job Link) is a web interface that allows users to upload their resumes and apply for jobs matching their qualifications. Once a document is uploaded to the platform, they are given access to analytics to track job applications sent and interviews scheduled.

# Terminology
- JWT: JSON Web Token

# Background
 The Job Link application provides user a place to explore open opportunities and to track application submissions. Users can apply to as many applications as they desire while keeping a log of applications sent to open roles. The Job Link web interface allows a centralized platform to help monitor your application status within your profile.

# User Experience
  ## Login Screen
  Users are navigated to the login page. They are presented with an email and password field including "Sign In" and "Sign Up" buttons.

  ![job-portal-login](/attachments/JobPortalLogin.png)

  ## Registration Screen
  If a user needs to create an account, they can do so by clicking the "Sign Up" button where they are navigated to the Sign Up form screen. This is where users are required to add their credentials to create an account.

  ![job-portal-signup](/attachments/JobPortalSignup.png)

  ## File Upload Screen
  Once a user logs into the web interface successfully, the user is presented with a screen that contains a sidebar with links to the dashboard and job search screens. The side bar component also has the "Help" and "Settings" links at the footer of the side bar area. Headers contains a profile image with the name of the user next to the image. In the main screen, there is a component with a icon inside a dotted box to upload a document. A user can upload a pdf or text document that is stored in an external storage database.

  ![job-portal-file-upload](/attachments/JobPortalFileUpload.png)

  ## File Upload Successful Screen
  Once a user successfully uploads a document into the application, the icon and the content inside the dotted box is replaced with a check mark, confirming the document has been successfully uploaded. There is a message displayed underneath the box and a button displayed as "View Jobs" indicating that the file has been uploaded into the interface.

  ![job-portal-file-upload-successful](/attachments/JobPortalFileUploadSuccess.png)

  ## Dashboard Screen
  The dashboard screen provides a comprehensive line chart that includes analytics on the amount of applications sent, interviews scheduled, and job postings available.

  ![job-portal-dashboard](/attachments/JobPortalDashboard.png)

  ## Job Search Screen
  The job search link provides a list of job postings for users to apply to. The user can simply click the "Apply Now" button and navigate to the company's career page and apply to the role that is listed on the site. There is also a search bar above the list of roles to search for a specific posting.

  ![job-portal-search](/attachments/JobPortalSearch.png)

# Security Configurations
- The application is utilizing spring security to authenticate users when they log into the application. Once a user registers and creates a profile in the application, the user's credentials are generated with a new generated token where the token is used to verify and authenticate the user in the backend. A JWT token is generated and the user can successfully log into the app.
- The OAuth 2.0 is utilized to authenticate and make client calls to the API to retrieve job listings.

# Dependencies
- At the moment, the application depends on the Job Board API to retrieve job postings to display them in the job search screen.

# Endpoints
  ## Login
  - Enter credentials to log into the web page.

  - **Request**
    - POST https://job-portal-service/portal/login
    - Body:
      ```
      {
        "username": "myusername"
        "userPassword": "mySecuredPassword"
      }
      ```
  - **Response**
    - Status code: 200
    ```
    Test User has successfully logged in.
    ```
  ## Registration
  - Enter user data to complete registration before logging in.

  - **Request**
    - POST https://job-portal-service/portal/register
    - Body:
      ```
      {
        "firstName": "Test",
        "lastName": "User",
        "username": "myusername",
        "userEmail": "test.user@dev.com",
        "userPassword": "mySecuredPassword",
        "createdTimestamp": "2025-12-04T16:03:39.584Z",
        "updatedTimestamp": "2025-12-04T16:03:39.584Z"
      }
      ```
  - **Response**
    - Status code: 200
    ```
    User registered successfully.
    ```
  ## Retrieve Job Postings
  - Retrieve a list of job postings and display the them in the job search screen.

  - **Request**
    - GET https://job-portal-service/portal/jobs

  - **Response**
    - Status code: 200
    ```
    "postings": [
      {
        "id": 1345
        "job_title": "Frontend Engineer",
        "job_url": "https://www.indeed.com/pagead/frontend%engineer,
        "company_logo": "https://d2q79iu7y748jz.cloudfront.net/s/_squarelogo/256x256/805b99f2c7caa3e66191a79b1e47d418"
        "company_name": "Intellistack",
        "company_address": "Moorepark, CA 93021",
        "company_salary": "$125,000 - $130,000 a year",
        "company_metadata": ["Full-time", "401(k)","Paid time off"],
        "date_posted": "4 days ago"
      },
      {
        "id": 1346
        "job_title": "Senior Software Engineer",
        "job_url": "https://www.indeed.com/pagead/senior%software%engineer,
        "company_name": "Netflix",
        "company_logo": "https://d2q79iu7y748jz.cloudfront.net/s/_squarelogo/256x256/805b99f2c7caa3e66191a79b1e47d418"
        "company_address": "Los Angeles, CA 90001",
        "company_salary": "$167,000 - $210,000 a year",
        "company_metadata": ["Full-time", "401(k)","Paid time off", "Health Insurance],
        "date_posted": "3 days ago"
      },
      {
        "id": 1347
        "job_title": "Full Stack Engineer",
        "job_url": "https://www.indeed.com/pagead/full%stack%engineer,
        "company_name": "Snap, Inc.",
        "company_logo": "https://d2q79iu7y748jz.cloudfront.net/s/_squarelogo/256x256/805b99f2c7caa3e66191a79b1e47d418"
        "company_address": "Santa Monica, CA 92001",
        "company_salary": "$155,000 - $175,000 a year",
        "company_metadata": ["Full-time", "401(k)","Benefits" ],
        "date_posted": "10 days ago"
      }
    ]
    ```
  ## Upload Document On Home Screen
  - **Request**
    - POST https://job-portal-service/portal/upload
    - Body:
      ```
      "file": MultipartFile
      ```
  - **Response**
    - Status code: 204

  ## Get Job Posting Count
  - **Request**
    - GET https://job-portal-service/portal/count
  - **Response**
    - Status code: 200
      ```
      400
      ```
# Business Logic
  ## Authentication Flow
  As described earlier in the wiki, there is a simple authentication process implemented into the login flow that validates a users credentials through generated tokens. Once a user attempts to log in, the authentication process starts by validating the user's password then hashes the password and saves it in the database. Once the system confirms that the user exists in the database, a JWT token is generated and sent to the user to confirm a successful login. If the system discovers that the credentials entered is not valid, an error message is sent to the user and a 400 reponse is returned.

  ![job-portal-auth-flow](/attachments/JobPortalAuthFlow.png)

  ## Backend Service Flow
  The Job Portal service holds the logic and routes for fetching job listings and sends the data to the frontend. The service makes client calls to the Job Board API, so the service can fetch and store the listings in the database for retrieval. The service also contains the job-portal-service/portal/upload endpoint to upload documents to Google Storage. Once the document uploads successfully to the storage platform, the resume metadata service, which lives in the Job Board API, scrapes the required meta data from the document to make calls to the api/job-portal endpoint. The api/job-portal returns the job postings and service calls are performed to retrieve and store in the loacal database.

  ![job-portal-service-flow](/attachments/JobPortalServiceFlow.png)

  ### Job Board API
  The Job Board API contains the CRUD methods to interact with job board data. The Job Portal Service submits client calls to the API to retreive updated job board data.

  #### Job Board API Data Model

  ![job-board-api-data-model](/attachments/JobBoardAPIDataModel.png)

  The model demonstrates that the job board data is stored in the job_postings table in the database at the API level. The service makes client calls to the API to display the data in the UI.

# Known Issues
- N/A
# Test Data Creation
- TBD

Commit message:

Add landing screen section
- Modified mocks for the file upload and success screens.

Feature/Job-Link.md, after:

# Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Terminology](#terminology)
- [Background](#background)
- [User Experience](#user-experience)
  - [Landing Screen](#landing-screen)
  - [Login Screen](#login-screen)
  - [Registration Screen](#registration-screen)
  - [File Upload Screen](#file-upload-screen)
  - [File Upload Successful Screen](#file-upload-successful-screen)
  - [Dashboard Screen](#dashboard-screen)
  - [Job Search Screen](#job-search-screen)
- [Security Configurations](#security-configurations)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Endpoints](#endpoints)
  - [Retrive Job Postings](retrieve-job-postings)
  - [Upload Document On Home Screen](upload-document-on-home-screen)
  - [Get Job Posting Count](get-job-posting-count)
- [Business Logic](#business-logic)
  - [Authentication Flow](#authentication-flow)
  - [Backend Service Flow](#backend-service-flow)
- [Known Issues](#known-issues)
- [Test Data Creation](#test-data-creation)

# Overview
The Job Portal application (Job Link) is a web interface that allows users to upload their resumes and apply for jobs matching their qualifications. Once a document is uploaded to the platform, they are given access to analytics to track job applications sent and interviews scheduled.

# Terminology
- JWT: JSON Web Token

# Background
 The Job Link application provides user a place to explore open opportunities and to track application submissions. Users can apply to as many applications as they desire while keeping a log of applications sent to open roles. The Job Link web interface allows a centralized platform to help monitor your application status within your profile.

# User Experience
  ## Landing Screen
  Users are presented with a landing page when navigated to the job board site. The login and sign up tabs are displayed in the upper right hand corner of the header and the title on the left side. The page also displays a landing title with animation.

  ![job-portal-landing](/attachments/JobPortalLanding.png)

  ## Login Screen
  Users are navigated to the login page. They are presented with an email and password field including "Sign In" and "Sign Up" buttons.

  ![job-portal-login](/attachments/JobPortalLogin.png)

  ## Registration Screen
  If a user needs to create an account, they can do so by clicking the "Sign Up" button where they are navigated to the Sign Up form screen. This is where users are required to add their credentials to create an account.

  ![job-portal-signup](/attachments/JobPortalSignup.png)

  ## File Upload Screen
  Once a user logs into the web interface successfully, the user is presented with a screen that contains a sidebar with links to the dashboard and job search screens. The side bar component also has the "Help" and "Settings" links at the footer of the side bar area. Headers contains a profile image with the name of the user next to the image. In the main screen, there is a component with a icon inside a dotted box to upload a document. A user can upload a pdf or text document that is stored in an external storage database.

  ![job-portal-file-upload](/attachments/JobPortalFileUpload.png)

  ## File Upload Successful Screen
  Once a user successfully uploads a document into the application, the icon and the content inside the dotted box is replaced with a check mark, confirming the document has been successfully uploaded. There is a message displayed underneath the box and a button displayed as "View Jobs" indicating that the file has been uploaded into the interface.

  ![job-portal-file-upload-successful](/attachments/JobPortalFileUploadSuccess.png)

  ## Dashboard Screen
  The dashboard screen provides a comprehensive line chart that includes analytics on the amount of applications sent, interviews scheduled, and job postings available.

  ![job-portal-dashboard](/attachments/JobPortalDashboard.png)

  ## Job Search Screen
  The job search link provides a list of job postings for users to apply to. The user can simply click the "Apply Now" button and navigate to the company's career page and apply to the role that is listed on the site. There is also a search bar above the list of roles to search for a specific posting.

  ![job-portal-search](/attachments/JobPortalSearch.png)

# Security Configurations
- The application is utilizing spring security to authenticate users when they log into the application. Once a user registers and creates a profile in the application, the user's credentials are generated with a new generated token where the token is used to verify and authenticate the user in the backend. A JWT token is generated and the user can successfully log into the app.
- The OAuth 2.0 is utilized to authenticate and make client calls to the API to retrieve job listings.

# Dependencies
- At the moment, the application depends on the Job Board API to retrieve job postings to display them in the job search screen.

# Endpoints
  ## Login
  - Enter credentials to log into the web page.

  - **Request**
    - POST https://job-portal-service/portal/login
    - Body:
      ```
      {
        "username": "myusername"
        "userPassword": "mySecuredPassword"
      }
      ```
  - **Response**
    - Status code: 200
    ```
    Test User has successfully logged in.
    ```
  ## Registration
  - Enter user data to complete registration before logging in.

  - **Request**
    - POST https://job-portal-service/portal/register
    - Body:
      ```
      {
        "firstName": "Test",
        "lastName": "User",
        "username": "myusername",
        "userEmail": "test.user@dev.com",
        "userPassword": "mySecuredPassword",
        "createdTimestamp": "2025-12-04T16:03:39.584Z",
        "updatedTimestamp": "2025-12-04T16:03:39.584Z"
      }
      ```
  - **Response**
    - Status code: 200
    ```
    User registered successfully.
    ```
  ## Retrieve Job Postings
  - Retrieve a list of job postings and display the them in the job search screen.

  - **Request**
    - GET https://job-portal-service/portal/jobs

  - **Response**
    - Status code: 200
    ```
    "postings": [
      {
        "id": 1345
        "job_title": "Frontend Engineer",
        "job_url": "https://www.indeed.com/pagead/frontend%engineer,
        "company_logo": "https://d2q79iu7y748jz.cloudfront.net/s/_squarelogo/256x256/805b99f2c7caa3e66191a79b1e47d418"
        "company_name": "Intellistack",
        "company_address": "Moorepark, CA 93021",
        "company_salary": "$125,000 - $130,000 a year",
        "company_metadata": ["Full-time", "401(k)","Paid time off"],
        "date_posted": "4 days ago"
      },
      {
        "id": 1346
        "job_title": "Senior Software Engineer",
        "job_url": "https://www.indeed.com/pagead/senior%software%engineer,
        "company_name": "Netflix",
        "company_logo": "https://d2q79iu7y748jz.cloudfront.net/s/_squarelogo/256x256/805b99f2c7caa3e66191a79b1e47d418"
        "company_address": "Los Angeles, CA 90001",
        "company_salary": "$167,000 - $210,000 a year",
        "company_metadata": ["Full-time", "401(k)","Paid time off", "Health Insurance],
        "date_posted": "3 days ago"
      },
      {
        "id": 1347
        "job_title": "Full Stack Engineer",
        "job_url": "https://www.indeed.com/pagead/full%stack%engineer,
        "company_name": "Snap, Inc.",
        "company_logo": "https://d2q79iu7y748jz.cloudfront.net/s/_squarelogo/256x256/805b99f2c7caa3e66191a79b1e47d418"
        "company_address": "Santa Monica, CA 92001",
        "company_salary": "$155,000 - $175,000 a year",
        "company_metadata": ["Full-time", "401(k)","Benefits" ],
        "date_posted": "10 days ago"
      }
    ]
    ```
  ## Upload Document On Home Screen
  - **Request**
    - POST https://job-portal-service/portal/upload
    - Body:
      ```
      "file": MultipartFile
      ```
  - **Response**
    - Status code: 204

  ## Get Job Posting Count
  - **Request**
    - GET https://job-portal-service/portal/count
  - **Response**
    - Status code: 200
      ```
      400
      ```
# Business Logic
  ## Authentication Flow
  As described earlier in the wiki, there is a simple authentication process implemented into the login flow that validates a users credentials through generated tokens. Once a user attempts to log in, the authentication process starts by validating the user's password then hashes the password and saves it in the database. Once the system confirms that the user exists in the database, a JWT token is generated and sent to the user to confirm a successful login. If the system discovers that the credentials entered is not valid, an error message is sent to the user and a 400 reponse is returned.

  ![job-portal-auth-flow](/attachments/JobPortalAuthFlow.png)

  ## Backend Service Flow
  The Job Portal service holds the logic and routes for fetching job listings and sends the data to the frontend. The service makes client calls to the Job Board API, so the service can fetch and store the listings in the database for retrieval. The service also contains the job-portal-service/portal/upload endpoint to upload documents to Google Storage. Once the document uploads successfully to the storage platform, the resume metadata service, which lives in the Job Board API, scrapes the required meta data from the document to make calls to the api/job-portal endpoint. The api/job-portal returns the job postings and service calls are performed to retrieve and store in the loacal database.

  ![job-portal-service-flow](/attachments/JobPortalServiceFlow.png)

  ### Job Board API
  The Job Board API contains the CRUD methods to interact with job board data. The Job Portal Service submits client calls to the API to retreive updated job board data.

  #### Job Board API Data Model

  ![job-board-api-data-model](/attachments/JobBoardAPIDataModel.png)

  The model demonstrates that the job board data is stored in the job_postings table in the database at the API level. The service makes client calls to the API to display the data in the UI.

# Known Issues
- N/A
# Test Data Creation
- TBD
